# Reflections

## Day 1

On day one of the project, we worked together to produce the planning. We created a Trello board and brainstormed ideas to include in the project. We locked down our idea of the minimum variable product, then came up with ideas for stretch goals we could try to implement once we had our fundamental app finished. We created a few wireframed to get a better idea of how we would format the app and what features we wanted and where they will be. We then all worked on one computer with someone sharing their screen to collaboratively produce our database schema. We figured out what tables we would need to integrate OAuth and created them. We then designed and created tables to track users, questions, scores and comments. We created all relationships in advance as to streamline the process one the databases were ready to be populated. We then created a GitHub repository and ensured all members of the team were collaborators on the project. We created an OAuth application to allow us to utilise authentication on the project. We removed the default content that Next.js created when a project was made. We installed all additional packages required by the project. The repo was then updated, and all members clones the repo to their local machines. We then added some basic styling for buttons. We created log in and log out button components. We ran the site in a development environment to test our authentication and database connection was working. Thankfully it was all successful. We then spend the remaining time of the first day further discussing our desired layout and aesthetics. We also produced a small logo to use within the product.

## Day 2

On day 2 we started coding the app itself. We decided what task each of us would work on and then created branches to make sure we didn’t create conflicts. A header component was created that displayed navigation links across the site. If the user is signed in, they have a sign-out option and if they are signed out, they are presented with a log-in button. Then a user submission form was created so that the users could submit their questions to the database that can be used in future quizzes. The page on which the users submit questions only presents the form to them if they are signed in, if they're signed out they are prompted to log in to submit questions. Some of the form values are typed and some are selected from a dropdown box. The user ID is taken from the NextAuth user session. So that all user-submitted questions are correctly associated with the user that created them. We started writing the quiz component itself. This component will display a question and have answers that users can select.

In the afternoon we did some brainstorming about exactly how and which props we would need at each level and how they would be handled. The quiz component was worked on throughout the afternoon. It fetches questions from an API that contains trivia questions. The user can select their answer and progress to the next question. After they have finished their set of questions they are given their results. We created a logo for our app to give a consistent sense of branding. We also created a user profile page. This is a dynamic page and is navigated to using a button that uses the user’s id to populate the correct URL. On this page, some basic information is displayed about the user and all the questions they have submitted are also visible. In the question display when the correct answer is hovered over the background slowly turn a light green to let you know which answer is right. We spent the initial part of the afternoon session working collaboratively. We then switch to working independently before coming together for more collaborative coding towards the end of the session.

## Day 3

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app).
